
                                    NEWS ACQUIRED ON  --> DATE: 2024-02-20    TIME 12:11                                     
TITLE: ASUU laments that economic hardship has killed 46 members in Abuja alone
HEADER1: Some members have reportedly received an amputated two-month salary of the seven-and-a-half-month withheld salaries, while many are yet to get anything.
LINK TITLE: ASUU laments that economic hardship has killed 46 members in Abuja alone | Pulse Nigeria
HEADER 2: The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Abuja zone, has disclosed the death of some of its members due to economic hardship alongside poor remuneration of academics and unfavourable working conditions.
BODY:
  The 1st zonal coordinator, ASUU, Abuja zone,Salahu Muhammedmade this known while briefing newsmen in Abuja on Monday. Muhammad said no fewer than 46 academics lost their lives in universities under the Abuja zone.
  They are the University of Abuja, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Federal University, Lafia, Nasarawa State University, Nasarawa, and the Ibrahim Babangida University, Lapai.
  He said that the union recently lost an eminent Professor of Fisheries,Johnson Oyero, of the Federal University of Technology, Minna, due to the inability to afford quality medical facilities.
  In the last decade, more Nigerian academics are leaving the country in droves in search of greener pastures, thereby overworking the patriotic ones that remain in the system whose level of patriotism is dwindling daily due to poor remuneration and working conditions.
  It is also worthy of note that the union has lost several members during the period under review due to herculean working conditions, psychological and emotional stress, and diseases related to these conditions.
  For instance, universities in the Abuja zone have lost 46 members,Muhammed said.
  He decried the payment to their members, of amputated two-month salaries by the Federal Government out of the seven-and-a-half month withheld salaries.
  Also, the 2nd ASUU Abuja Zonal Coordinator,Salahu Lawal, said the salaries were withheld when the administration of formerPresident Muhammadu Buhariinvoked a No Work, No Pay policy on members of the union that embarked on a strike that lasted eight months in 2022.
  Lawal said despite the order byPresident Tinubufor the release and payment of their withheld salaries, some members have reportedly received an amputated two-month salary of the seven-and-a-half-month withheld salaries, while many were yet to get anything.
  This is far below the expectation of the union and further weakens the morale of our members and the unions trust in government promises.
  We use this medium to call on all that are involved in this inglorious act to do the needful with regards to lecturers withheld salaries as there is nothing more to prove,he added.
  Lawal also lamented the inability of the government to implement the exemption of Federal Universities from the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) as approved by the federal Executive Council in December 2023.
  "In December 2023, the Minister of Education after a FEC meeting told the world that tertiary institutions are now exempted from the IPPIS an imposition on federal universities by the immediate past Buhari-led government.
  It is worrisome that two months after that pronouncement, the directive has not been implemented rather there was a funny narration on the salaries paid in January stating New IPPIS.
  This is lack of political will to carry out a directive from the president or even FEC by some elements who are beneficiaries of the dubious payment platform,Lawal stated.
  He further called on the Federal Government to sign and implement theProfessor Nimi Briggscommittee renegotiation agreement. The ASUU Zonal Coordinator called for the immediate implementation of salary awards of 25% and 35% and payment of its arrears from January 2023 to date.
